So last month, Curser released a blog
post that has been a bit controversial.
They did an experiment where they used
their agents and applied them to build
complex tasks but by just prompting it
once. So they tried stuff like building
a full spreadsheet software from scratch
and a full browser from scratch. You
know that a web browser is one of the
most complex pieces of software we have,
right? A web browser needs to have a
bunch of stuff. It needs to have like a
JavaScript engine, needs to be able to
render HTML. needs to have like a
network stack, a security stack. There's
a whole lot of stuff there. So when
cursor comes and says, well, we were
able to deploy a bunch of agents and
without any prompting or human
involvement, the agents were able to
build a full browser from scratch. Well,
I was curious, so I checked it out. And
what I found is that this is a perfect
example of the kind of nonsensical BS
hype that happens in the industry today.
So did cursor actually build a browser
from scratch? Let let me show you what
they've done. So the blog post is titled
scaling longunning autonomous coding.
We've been experimenting with running
coding agents autonomously for weeks.
Our goal is to understand how far we can
push the frontier of agentic coding for
projects that typically take human teams
months to complete. I want to add
something here which as a context for
this, right? Why why is cursor doing
this? Cursor is an IDE after all, right?
Why are they looking at agents where you
don't have to use an ID? Seems like a
conflict of interest, right? So, what
I've noticed is that cursor has been
steadily pushing agents. Okay, you might
have noticed this. If you look at a
recent installation of cursor, you
install cursor from like from the
scratch. You open it up, the first thing
you see is that agentic panel. They
don't even show the file browser bar.
Okay, you don't even see like why do you
want to see files? See our agents. So,
it starts out with agents and there's
been this constant push to focus more on
agents. And I think this is in line with
that. So, it's not really them saying
don't use cursor, use agents instead.
It's basically saying you want to use
agents, cursor is the right tool for
that. I think that's the pitch. Okay, so
keep that in mind. Now they talk about a
bunch of stuff about how they did the
architecture and we'll come to that in a
bit. But basically here is the key to
test the system. We pointed it at an
ambitious goal building a web browser
from the scratch. The agent ran for
close to a week writing over 1 million
lines of code across 1,000 files. You
can explore the source code on GitHub.
Yes, we're going to explore it. But wait
a minute, they've given this uploaded
this uh what is this? A video? A gif?
It's loading some page. Okay, it's
loading a medium page uh on medium.com.
And this is an Apple developer page. So
they have something here. It says while
it might seem like a simple screenshot,
building a browser from scratch is
extremely difficult. Okay, so they've
built a browser and they have done this
with hundreds of workers running
concurrently and pushing to the same
branch with minimal conflicts. Seems
impressive, right? Seems amazing if they
could do this. They have a bunch of
other uh experiments as well. So they've
done this solid to React migration in
the cursor codebase. So they were using
the solid framework, they switched to
React framework. If you're not sure,
basically there are two UI frameworks,
right? They move from one UI framework
to another. This one's actually a little
more promising and I'll come to that in
a bit. But we they have a few more.
Okay, they've done Java LSP, right?
Language server protocols language
server for IDE. They've done Windows 7
emulator and Excel. So they've created
all these things from the scratch, which
seems amazing. It's like can agents
really do all this? Okay, so the blog
post says they ran about 2,000 agents
concurrently at its peak and they made
thousands of commits per hour and they
used trillions of tokens. That's their
word. Trillions plural. So big claims,
lots of numbers and the repo is public
which means that anyone can go and
verify. So people went and checked and
guess what? The damn thing doesn't
compile.
What did you expect? Really, what did
you expect? Okay, let's take a look at
this. So, this is the repo. I'm going to
show show you the repo that they have.
This one's called uh fast render. Okay,
this is the repo created by entirely by
AI. A browser rendering engine in Rust.
It parses HTML, CSS, computes, all that
stuff. Wait a minute, where is AI? Oh,
here it is. Developed as a part of
research into collaborative parallel AI
coding agents. This is the repo. You can
check it out. It has nice AI generated
documentation with like charts and all
that stuff. Amazing, right? Except that
it just doesn't compile. Apart from that
one tiny bit of detail, everything else
in this repo is awesome. If you go to
the releases tab,
well, there are no releases, I guess.
Yeah, there are no releases. There are a
bunch of issues. If you go to the
issues, a bunch of people are not able
to compile the thing. Full of complaints
about that. And that's excluding the
closed issues about not being able to
compile. And there's nothing that you
can actually download and run as a uh as
a packaged thing, right? It's just there
as an experiment, as a proof of concept.
So the CI/CD pipeline, the automated
checks that run after every time a code
is merged, right? So there was this guy
Jason Gorman from codemanship who
analyzed the CI/CD for this project and
he found an 88% failure rate. 88%
failure rate. That means that out of
every 10 times the automated build ran
it failed almost nine times right and
the agents are still merging code while
CI was failing. And basically the check
is saying hey this is broken but code
gets merged anyway. This was the issue
that was created I think about a day
after they made this announcement.
Someone went ahead and tried to compile
it and they said, "Well, the build is
actually failing with 32 errors. There
are no releases, no tags, no stable
branch. What do we do with this thing?"
Right? And um let me zoom this up. And
there are a bunch of people who asked,
well, is there a CI run that actually
worked? It doesn't seem to be. Someone
else also tried to do a run for it. They
were not able to. Large parts of the
codebase has code that is completely out
of place. bunch of stuff that's being
linked to under one title but actually
links to something completely different.
CICD seems to not have been successful
once yet PRs are merged. The blog post
mentions something like it might look
like just a screenshot but blah blah
blah is the screenshot the thing we're
supposed to be impressed by because for
all intents and matters this project
does not contain a functioning web
browser by any measurements and I'm not
sure how anyone could have successfully
ran this at least with the code as is
right now. There was one other issue
that someone had opened saying that they
manually managed to get that to work and
they tried to use it as a browser and
the search box didn't work. The browser
didn't respond to clicks and then the
page just hangs. It says page
unresponsive. So basically basic
interaction doesn't work even when you
put in the effort and clear the build.
Okay. So this browser that they
announced as built from scratch in a
week, maybe it's likely that a fully
clean build never existed. Not that it's
buggy, it's never fully compiled as a
whole. Now let's take a look at the
other claim which is built from scratch.
Okay, it's not working at its current
state. But can it just you know just
maybe a little nudge and then it starts
working? Well, okay, for that let's look
at the other part. What will we have if
we do fix the builds, right? Is it a
browser built from the scratch? So it
turns out the project uses HTML 5 and
CSS parser. So these are two libraries
from Mosilla's servo engine and they're
used for HTML parsing and CSS parsing.
Okay. So basically what the agent has
done is it's taken a library from
another open-source browser just plugged
it in. These are not utility libraries,
right? HTML parsing is a fundamental
feature of a browser. So if you're
saying you're building it from the
scratch, you can't go about using a
library. You got to build a new library.
CSS parsing is a fundamental feature of
of a browser. layouts, graphics, text
rendering. This is basically what a
browser is. So if you're outsourcing
that what do you have in your browser
and what these guys have done is the
agents really it's basically taken
existing mature open source projects and
it's got that in right so there's this
guy called Gregory Terzian who maintains
I hope I'm pronouncing the name right he
maintains the sero browser engine right
he's been working on server since 2016
okay he looked at this code and he
basically said uh the actual code is
worse I can only describe it as a tangle
of spaghetti, a uniquely bad design that
could never support anything resembling
a realworld web engine. Right? This is a
guy who does the work professionally,
saying that the code is structurally
broken. It's not just incomplete, it is
broken. The libraries that I talked
about, right? Servo and Ladybird, they
are open source and they each are about
a million lines of code, right? They
have been built for over years. I think
some of them are for even decades. Fast
render has three million lines of code
and it actually does less. Okay, three
times the code and a fraction of the
capability. In software, there's a term
for it. When you have more code but it's
less functional, you know what they call
it? They call it bloat is what it is. So
Wilson, who's the cursor engineer who
created this project, kind of pushed
back on social media, right? He
responded on hacker news and he said,
"Well, yeah, the JSVM, uh, the DOM, the
like the pain systems, they're all being
part of the project. They're not being
wired from dependency." He was honest
about what's not there yet. He was
basically saying, well, it is like a
research project, but the discrepancy is
in what they're saying here versus what
the tweet claimed. I'm going to show you
the tweet here. So this is the CEO
saying we built a browser and it ran for
a week and it's kind of works has issues
but then we were astonished is what he
says right and all I can think of is
this comment here investors can't read
code and don't even know what GitHub is
the computer programmed itself so line
go up so basically the point is that
this is we are not the target audience
this is meant for someone else and the
blog post has done its job in generating
the hype which is a very fair
assessment. And now finally if you think
all this is surprising I'm going to give
you the biggest shocker of all which is
about the cost. The blog post says that
they deployed trillions of tokens okay
trillions of tokens. If you look at the
calculation all right GPT 5.2 into
Cordex, which is the model that they
claimed they used. It costs $14 per
million output tokens. Okay, this is a
standard OpenAI price. Maybe they might
get a discount, but let's keep it at $14
per million output tokens. Okay, so if
you do a calculation, 1 trillion tokens
divided by 1 million gives you 1 million
batches, right? So 1 million * 14, you
get $14 million. That's the simple
version. It's I'd say it's the
conservative version because basically
what you're saying is if the agents just
generated 1 trillion tokens as output
without anything else without iterating
or without like going the wrong place
correcting and all that generates 1
trillion tokens you basically spend $14
million. But if you look at reality not
all tokens are output right? If you look
at agentic systems they use a lot of
input tokens as well. They basically
load the context. They read the
codebase. They do some planning. And
input tokens are a little bit cheaper,
but they're not free. Usually, if you
realistically, if you look at a 7030
input output split, you say trillions,
what are we looking at? Two trillion.
And if you look at the calculation,
you're basically getting to around with
7030, you're basically looking at around
$10.8 million total. If they used 3
trillions, you're basically getting
closer to around $16 million. So the
realistic range is somewhere between 8
million to 16 million. Okay, that's
about $2 million a day for a week for
code that does not compile. Someone on
social media commented, "Maybe next time
just donate the money to a browser
team." Hard to argue with that. So all
of the stuff, the compile errors, the
from scratch claim being bad and then
even the cost has been covered well in
social media. A lot of people have been
talking about it, but I think there is a
detail in this blog post which matters a
little more than the headline stuff. And
that is something that I think people
haven't been picking up on. The blog
actually describes how their agent
architecture evolved. Early on, they had
this integrator role, the agent whose
job is to do quality control. It
reviewed code from worker agents and
checked for consistency, made sure
things fit together. Basically, what
like a senior engineer or a staff
engineer does in a coding review.
Basically what they said was, okay, we
have an integrator agent whose job is to
do quality control, but it was actually
slowing down. This this is literally
what the blog says. They say that
removing the integrator simplified the
system and eliminated bottlenecks.
Workers just handled the conflicts on
their own. Think about that for a
minute. The quality control agent was
slowing things down. And yes, quality
control does slow things down. That's
the point. That's what it does. You
check for quality before they ship. And
if the quality is bad, it does slow
down. It does take time. And instead of
figuring out how to do quality checks at
speed, they just stop doing them. So no
wonder you have this result, right? And
then they pointed the throughput numbers
and said, see, look at how much we can
produce. You can always produce more.
Okay? If you stop checking whether what
you're producing is correct or not,
whether it works or not, sure, you can
produce more. And that's basically what
happened here. It's the same pattern
that you see in human software teams by
the way, right? When a team starts
optimizing for velocity, you basically
have managers counting lines of code per
sprint. How many commits do you have per
day? How many story points did you get
done? You can always hit bigger numbers
by cutting out the quality, right? Cut
out the code reviews. Just do rubber
stamped code reviews, skip the tests,
ship faster, you have metrics which now
look amazing, and the software gets
worse. So this literally what's happened
over here, right? They have 30,000
commits, 3 million lines of code, and
88% of those fail CI metrics are
amazing. The software doesn't compile.
Now, here's the thing that bothers me.
Like I use cursor and clot code. It does
certain things well if you use it right.
Right. not just give an agent a vague
prompt and say go ahead and do it. But
if you have the agency and you're
basically controlling it, right? You're
kind of treating it as a buddy paired
programmer and then working on it
actually does a really good job. The
fact that hundreds of agents can
actually work on shared codebase at all
is fascinating. Cursor's own blog post
has better demonstration built inside.
We looked at a couple of other examples,
right? They moved from solid to React.
They did it in 3 weeks and the CI was
green for that. at the end that actually
worked and it is a bounded problem in
that case right so they can actually
test it and verify it it's easier to
examine and iterate so there is a clear
input a clear output and I think for
those agents are really good at right
they can find out if what they're doing
is right or not but a browser it's not
as easy it's open-ended and it is
ambiguous and it requires some
architectural judgment about trade-offs
which I don't think the agents are good
at yet the thing that really bugs me
about this whole situation. It isn't
about code quality, right? Bad
experimental code exists. Sure, people
write bad code too. The problem, the
thing that really bugs me is the
framing. Okay, cursor is no longer some
random startup. They're one of the
biggest names in AI assisted development
today. There are millions of developers
who actually use that tool. So when a
company with that kind of credibility
says we built a browser from scratch in
a week and the code doesn't compile and
the from scratch claim fails and the
whole thing costs like $16 million in
API tokens. What it does is it damages
trust not just in cursor but in the
whole space right I mean I'm someone who
genuinely thinks that these tools are
good. I know some of you might oppose
that, but the real capabilities of what
AI does today is already impressive
enough compared to where we started.
It's impressive enough that we don't
need this exaggeration. Cursor could
have basically hyped their own solid to
React migration. That's a good example
of agents actually doing useful work.
Why did they not lead with that? Well,
we are in this environment where every
AI company feels like they have to top
the last announcement. When everyone is
amplifying their announcements, people
who are rational and people who are
realistic, their story gets buried,
right? The most inflated version of the
story is the one that goes viral. And I
keep coming back to this question. If a
company like Cursor overstates the
results like this, how do we evaluate
smaller like less established AI
companies? What's our baseline for
trust? Because right now it feels like
the whole industry is asking us to just
kind of take their word for it. And
especially because AI tools are
nondeterministic. You can't just take
and replicate the experience just the
same way. You could literally do exactly
what someone claimed they did and get
different results. So you kind of have
to trust. And that trust is getting
harder to do. So I'm curious to see how
you process the news. When you see an AI
news, do you think it's just hype and
look at it with skepticism or do you
think companies like cursor should be
held to a higher standard? I struggled
with this myself. So, for example, for
creating the thumbnail to this video, I
was debating, okay, should I put $14
million or $12 million? Let me do the
math. Well, if they did two trillion in
I was doing the calculation to put the
damn thing on the thumbnail because I
didn't want to lie. And here we have
these large companies who are not
technically lying, but they're deceiving
in bad faith. So, I don't know.
Shouldn't they be held accountable to a
higher standard? Let me know what you
think.